Yesterday we noted the saga of China's First Air Express-Airports consortium — the company set to establish a slew of new low-cost, full-service airports across China.<p>It is the very embodiment of China's move to cement the country's economic might.<p>First Air Express-Airports would begin with four new airports, each being set up in a different city as part of a four-hub initiative to create a similar sort of reach that operates at the same time across all of China.<p>The scale of the project would pose tough competition for the likes of Air France-KLM and Air China, all of which operate a mix of low-cost and full-service carriers.<p>Details of this planned fleet expansion are difficult to discern.<p>However, given that China has hundreds of thousands of small airports, the sheer geographic scope of this project would make Chinese carriers very adept at managing these urban hubs.<p>This move also offers a potential model for other countries to follow.<p>However, there appears to be another back-office airline venture in the works.<p>As Bloomberg reports, an application from China's SAS Airlines, also owned by the country's state-owned flag carrier Air China, for a US$3 billion share purchase from rival CITIC Airways will be sent to the US Treasury tomorrow.<p>CITIC is majority owned by the state-owned Guangzhou state-owned enterprise Cosco Group.<p>SAS already owns a 9.4 percent stake in CITIC, which trades on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.<p>The move is unlikely to be a good sign for the future of the airline, which has gone through a long restructuring after its plane crash in 2007.<p>The airline has pulled in the most profits of all Chinese carriers in the last decade and it seems now would be the best time to bolster its shareholding.<p>However, as the WSJ also notes, China's commerce ministry has warned against ceding too much control of the airline industry to foreign companies.<p>This story originally appeared on The Herald's China Special page. The views expressed are the author's own.<p><b></b>