A Saudi Arabia State media outlet says King Salman and his entourage have been taken to a hospital in Riyadh after falling ill. The official SPA news agency said the king underwent a check-up, but did not offer details about his ailment. The Saudi Press Agency, which is linked to the official SPA news agency, said a statement was expected later.<p>The King was hospitalized the week before last in June after a minor illness. The royal court issued a statement at the time saying that the king and his entourage recovered quickly, and returned to Riyadh in time for the annual hajj pilgrimage. During hajj, King Salman receives prominent guests and foreign dignitaries for prayers, and reaffirms the country's support for the holy sites of Makkah and Madinah.<p>The 86-year-old King Salman inherited the throne in January 2015 after his half-brother King Abdallah died. King Salman was present at his father's funeral in Mecca, where he was led by an Arabian stallion named Al-Amasrah as he entered the site of the burial in pictures from the funeral released by Saudi media.<p>Many Saudi royal families retain its members through a bloodline that follows certain branches of their ancestry. The office of the King -- traditionally the first senior figure in the country -- is often referred to as the "Mufti," meaning the the eminent scholar and moral leader of the Sunni Muslim world. King Salman has often relied on a cadre of new ministers with little experience to manage foreign policy and other sensitive decisions.<p><b></b>